Don't forget about me!
We're both women, so don't mock me!
Naruto…Sasuke…Sakura!
You guys make a nice picture right now.
I really love you guys!
Now!
Cha!
All right!
Six Paths Planetary Devastation!
To think that I, the originator of chakra…
would be defeated by pieces of my own chakra, again…
Why?!
Hmm? They've done it!
All that's left is to bring you all back!
Is the ground being sucked up towards her?
We finally made it out!
Kurama, your Jinchuriki's pretty good.
CONGRATULATIONS
Over here!
Sasuke!
What happened to Naruto?
He went off by himself,
saying there was something he had to take care of.
More importantly, we need to get farther away from here!
At this point, it can't be helped.
I'll just start over and work on Mother's next resurrection!
That reminds me,
you don't like being separated from your mom, right?
D-Damn you!
I haven't forgotten about you.
Hiding in the shadows and creeping around for all this time!
You!
You're just a piece of the shinobi history I created.
A brat like you could never…!
History?
Shinobi history…
consists of all sorts of ninja's lives, and deaths!
Many shinobi taught me what it means to be a shinobi.
The pain and sadness of death… the tragedy of war.
And not only that!
They taught me the joy of being accepted and being loved!
The way they lived… and the way they died…
made me who I am!
They taught me and trusted me!
You're a brat who can't even leave the nest!
Get over yourself!
It's still growing.
It's like a moon.
Guys!
It's over.
The seal is complete!
We can finally celebrate!
You're right.
The first thing I want is a hot bath
to wash away all this sweat and grime.
Hold on a sec! What about us?!
How are we supposed to get out of this Time-Space?!
Oh no! You're right! This is bad! This is bad!
He does whatever needs to get done.
But he's still pretty dumb, isn't he?
Summoning Jutsu!
Welcome home, Naruto.
Dad…
Naruto, who's this?
Six Paths Super Gramps!
Which means…
That's right, you're back in your world
through a Summoning performed by all prior Five Kage together.
I called all of the previous Five Kage
from the afterworld to help.
Naruto, Sasuke… and the rest of you…
Excellent work saving the world.
Six Paths Super Gramps?
Are you by any chance the legendary…?
I am Hagoromo Otsutsuki.
Also known as the Sage of the Six Paths.
No wonder…you're levitating.
At this point, nothing shocks me anymore.
It seems like everything went well.
The Shinobi World sure went to hell while we were dead.
Damn it!
It's the first time I've seen so many Tailed Beasts together in one place!
The Sage of the Six Paths, eh…
It feels like we've wandered into a fairy tale!
So you are the one, after all.
Summoning the past Five Kage here and...
being able to bring the Tailed Beasts and us back from the other Time-Space…
You're probably the only person who could perform such godly actions.
Are you Kakashi Hatake?
Oh…yes.
Good job guiding everyone and sealing my mother away.
That truly was the work of gods.
Oh, no.
I hardly played any part at all.
It was these three and many comrades.
And…a former friend also lent me strength.
That's why I said you guided everyone well.
Despite losing your way,
you remained Naruto's teacher and Obito's friend.
Or else, you likely wouldn't have succeeded in stopping my mother.
Hey! Kurama!
Were you lonely being separated from me?
I missed you!
Don't talk so loud!
I wasn't lonely.
You have half of me inside you…remember?
Just look at Kurama, all embarrassed and flustered!
But this is exactly what I had once envisioned.
That there would one day be a shinobi,
who could move even the Tailed Beasts to cooperate.
Even Obito was Naruto's doing…
He restored Obito.
I see…
Then I shall ask Obito to tell me that tale in the afterworld.
Is he still…?
I‘m gonna get going soon.
Yeah…
I really made a mess out of the Shinobi World.
So much that I don't even know what to say to you before I go.
We're able to say goodbye as friends, not enemies.
To the old you…
the one who was always late because you were helping others.
That's plenty enough for me.
Thanks, Kakashi.
I'll be going then.
I've been keeping Rin waiting.
Do you have an excuse ready?
I told her beforehand I'd be helping you.
I see…
Same here…
Thank you, Obito.
Kakashi Sensei!
Sakura… Thank you.
Kakashi Sensei, your eyes!
Yeah…
As of today, Kakashi of the Sharingan is no more.
Madara was a Jinchuriki. Even if it was temporary…
emptied of the Tailed Beast, he won't last long.
It's his fault for trying to use such things.
Sasuke, Naruto… Behold, the end of your predecessors.
You should watch this closely.
Is that you, Hashirama?
I guess neither you, nor I could achieve what we wanted.
It's never that easy!
Our job is to do all that we can, while we're alive.
And then, bequeath the rest for future generations to accomplish.
So naïve…
as usual.
You…were always…the optimist.
But perhaps… that is the correct path.
My dream…
was squashed.
But your dream…
still lives on.
We were both too hasty.
We didn't need to fulfill our dreams ourselves.
It was more important to cultivate those who would come after us…
to whom we could entrust our dreams.
Which means I would have failed anyway.
Since I always hated someone… standing behind me…
When we were kids… You once said we're shinobi
and we don't know when we'll die.
And that for neither side to die,
we'd both have to reveal what's inside of us
and pour each other drinks to toast like brothers.
But we're both about to die.
Right now, we can drink together, as war buddies.
War buddies…huh?
Well…
I guess…that's okay…
by…
This is the perfect moment.
I will release the jutsu, free the Five Kages
and those under the Reanimation.
Go.
Dad…
Oh, that's right.
I've been meaning to tell you…
Happy birthday!
You've become a splendid young man, Naruto
Yeah… Thank you.
We're an existence outside of the rules.
We can't remain in this world forever.
It's time to say good-bye.
I promise to tell Kushina everything.
Tell her not to worry. I'm eating properly!
I'm not picky and eat lots of different stuff!
Like, tonkotsu ramen, miso ramen, and shoyu ramen…
Oh but, not just ramen though!
I try to bathe every day!
I go to the Leaf Hot Springs once in a while too!
Although everyone just says I only take quick dips…
What else, what else… I've made lots of friends!
And they're all good guys!
And…
I was really awful at school, but I never got depressed and
had more confidence than anyone else!
Naturally, I always obeyed
Lord Third and Kakashi Sensei.
I respect them both!
They're right here, so you can ask them yourself!
Oh! And those Three Prohibitions of Shinobi?
I learned a lot about that when I was with Pervy Sage!
He was hopeless when it came to them though…
but he was an awesome Sannin
and I respect him the most!
I just turned 17 today,
so I don't know much about alcohol or girls…
I know Mom said to find someone like her…
But…that's…um…
Anyways!
Not everything Mom told me about went well,
but I'm doing the best I can!
I've got dreams too!
I'm gonna become an even greater Hokage than you, Dad!
I swear I will!
So when you see Mom over there, please tell her…
that she doesn't have to worry about me at all!
Tell her I'm doin' my best!
Got it…
I'll make sure to tell her everything.
Having fought my mother Kaguya…
Is there any change to the answers you gave me?
My answer's the same.
Now then, Sasuke… What about you?
Yes, but first…
the current Five Kage inside the Infinite Tsukuyomi…
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "The Final Valley"
What did you just say, Sasuke?!
THE FINAL VALLEY Tune in again!